Al jazir is Muhammad Jam jum's at
Damascus gate in occupied East Jerusalem
he sent this
update first let me just tell you what's
going on behind us as you can see
there's still a lot of security
Personnel here uh we have started seeing
worshippers that have been emerging
because Friday prayer is now over so
we're expecting to see more in the
moments to come um we did see as Sarah
mentioned a lot of men who were in
younger ages of 35 and under who had
been turned away not being able to
access Damascus gate and get to Al AA
MOS compound in the past hour hour and a
half and I spoke to some of them to ask
them what they were feeling some of them
after they emerged waited here and off
to the side where we are they gathered
and they prayed they went ahead and
prayed out here close to the street um
other ones spoke to us and talked about
the frustration that they're feeling
about not being able to go in not being
able to get to the Moss Compound on a
day like today but also we asked them
about their feelings right now in the
wake of what's going on in Gaza so many
of them told us about how concerned they
are are about Palestinians in Gaza
they're extremely concerned today
because of the fact that there has been
this evacuation order they say they
don't know where the residents in Gaza
are going to be able to go many of them
said to us they believe this is going to
be a humanitarian catastrophe uh one man
that I spoke with also pointed out he
said that he was very very dismayed and
very disturbed to have seen what
happened when Hamas attacked Southern
Israel and he said that civilians women
and children should never have been
targeted another man that I spoke with
said that the fact of the matter is
right now the situation has grown much
more perilous in his words for
Palestinians he says because of what
happened because of the attacks he said
now the the the future for them is far
more uncertain than it was and it was
already very uncertain he says things
are very dire now and they're very
concerned that essentially they're going
to be facing a much harsher reality than
they already do going forward now I just
want to mention again you see this
stepped up security behind us we were
told earlier in the day there's at least
2500 security officers officers that
have been deployed to this area of
occupied East Jerusalem today now that's
one of the reasons we have not seen a
lot of worshippers being able to access
this area being able to get into the al-
akamas compound um but also one of the
things that we've seen people have said
that they know relatives who didn't want
to come out today they're concerned
about the security situation they just
don't know about what's going to be
happening in the hours and the days
ahead so it's a tenuous situation it's a
tense situation it has been quiet here
where we are at Damascus gate we have
not seen any clashes but certainly what
we've heard from people they are very
worried about what's going to be
happening in the days ahead